[WBH] Documentation dedicated ip (#2550)
scaleway/docs-content: managed-services/webhosting/how-to/order-dedicated-ip.mdx

---
meta:
  title: How to order a dedicated IP address for a Web Hosting plan
  description: This page explains how to order a dedicated IP address for a Web Hosting plan.
content:
  h1: How to order a dedicated IP address for a Web Hosting plan
  paragraph: This page explains how to order a dedicated IP address for a Web Hosting plan
tags: webhosting
dates:

>   validation: 2023-12-20

Author: ```suggestion
  validation: 2024-02-05
```

  posted: 2023-12-20
categories:
  - managed-services
---

In shared Web Hosting, multiple websites share the same server and its resources. Each website typically has its own domain name, but they all use the same IP address for the server. Scaleway provides the option to purchase a dedicated IP address for your website, even within a shared hosting environment. 
Some potential advantages of having a dedicated IP address for Web Hosting are:

> * **Email Reputation:** A dedicated IP address can be beneficial for email reputation. If your shared server's IP address is associated with spam or malicious activities from other users, it could negatively impact your email deliverability. With a dedicated IP, your email reputation is separate from other users on the same server.

Author: ```suggestion
* **Email reputation:** A dedicated IP address can be beneficial for email reputation. If your shared server's IP address is associated with spam or malicious activities from other users, it could negatively impact your email deliverability. With a dedicated IP, your email reputation is separate from other users on the same server.
```

> * **SSL/TLS Certificates:** If you want to secure your website with an SSL/TLS certificate, having a dedicated IP address can be necessary. While it is possible to use Server Name Indication (SNI) to enable SSL on shared IP addresses, not all older browsers support SNI. In such cases, a dedicated IP address becomes necessary for compatibility.

Author: ```suggestion
* **SSL/TLS certificates:** If you want to secure your website with an SSL/TLS certificate, having a dedicated IP address can be necessary. While it is possible to use Server Name Indication (SNI) to enable SSL on shared IP addresses, not all older browsers support SNI. In such cases, a dedicated IP address becomes necessary for compatibility.
```

> * **Avoiding Blacklisting:** Shared IP addresses can be more susceptible to being blacklisted if another user on the same server engages in spam or other malicious activities. With a dedicated IP, you have more control over the reputation of your IP address.

Author: ```suggestion
* **Avoiding blacklisting:** Shared IP addresses can be more susceptible to being blacklisted if another user on the same server engages in spam or other malicious activities. With a dedicated IP, you have more control over the reputation of your IP address.
```

<Message type="note">

>   The need of a dedicated IP address can depend on your specific requirements and the nature of your website. Many websites function perfectly well with shared IP addresses, and dedicated IPs are often more critical for specific scenarios, such as e-commerce sites that require SSL/TLS or those with unique server configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The need for a dedicated IP address can depend on your specific requirements and the nature of your website. Many websites function perfectly well with shared IP addresses, but dedicated IPs are often more critical for specific scenarios, such as e-commerce sites that require SSL/TLS or those with unique server configurations.
```

>   The need of a dedicated IP address can depend on your specific requirements and the nature of your website. Many websites function perfectly well with shared IP addresses, and dedicated IPs are often more critical for specific scenarios, such as e-commerce sites that require SSL/TLS or those with unique server configurations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Needing a dedicated IP address can depend on your specific requirements and the nature of your website. Many websites function perfectly well with shared IP addresses, and dedicated IPs are often more critical for specific scenarios, such as e-commerce websites that require SSL/TLS or those with unique server configurations.
```

  Always assess your specific needs before deciding whether a dedicated IP is necessary for your shared hosting environment.
</Message>

<Macro id="iam-requirements" />

<Message type="requirement">
  - You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)
  - You have [registered a domain name](/network/domains-and-dns/how-to/register-internal-domain/) at Scaleway or another registrar
  - You have a Web Hosting plan with a shared IP address
</Message>

## Activate a dedicated IP address for a Web Hosting plan

> 1. Navigate to the **Managed Services** section of the [console](https://console.scaleway.com/) side menu and click **Web Hosting**. This action will lead you to the **Web Hosting** overview page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the **Managed Services** section of the [console](https://console.scaleway.com/) side menu and click **Web Hosting**. You are directed to the **Web Hosting** overview page.
```

> 2. Click either <Icon name="seeMore" /> or click on the domain name associated with the Web Hosting you want to configure. This will take you to the **Hosting Information** page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Click either <Icon name="seeMore" /> or the domain name associated with the Web Hosting you want to configure. This will take you to the **Hosting Information** page.
```

> 2. Click either <Icon name="seeMore" /> or click on the domain name associated with the Web Hosting you want to configure. This will take you to the **Hosting Information** page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click either <Icon name="seeMore" /> or click on the domain name associated with the Web Hosting plan you want to configure. This will take you to the **Hosting Information** page.
```

> 3. Within the hosting options area of your Web Hosting, click on **Manage Options**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Within the hosting options area of your Web Hosting plan, click on **Manage Options**.
```

4. Activate the **Dedicated IP** toggle to initiate the process of acquiring a dedicated IP address for your Web Hosting plan.
5. Complete the process by clicking **Update Web Hosting Plan**. 

>     This action will not only update the configuration of your Web Hosting but also assign the newly acquired dedicated IP to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This action will not only update the configuration of your Web Hosting plan but also assign the newly acquired dedicated IP to it.
```

<Message type="tip">
  Alternatively, you can activate this option directly while configuring a new Web Hosting plan.
</Message>

## Deactivate a dedicated IP address for a Web Hosting plan

> 1. Navigate to the **Managed Services** section of the [console](https://console.scaleway.com/) side menu and click **Web Hosting**. This action will lead you to the **Web Hosting** overview page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the **Managed Services** section of the [console](https://console.scaleway.com/) side menu and click **Web Hosting**. You are directed to the **Web Hosting** overview page.
```

> 2. Click either <Icon name="seeMore" /> or click on the domain name associated with the Web Hosting you want to configure. This will take you to the **Hosting Information** page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Click either <Icon name="seeMore" /> or the domain name associated with the Web Hosting you want to configure. This will take you to the **Hosting Information** page.
```

> 2. Click either <Icon name="seeMore" /> or click on the domain name associated with the Web Hosting you want to configure. This will take you to the **Hosting Information** page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click either <Icon name="seeMore" /> or click on the domain name associated with the Web Hosting plan you want to configure. This will take you to the **Hosting Information** page.
```

> 3. Within the hosting options area of your Web Hosting, click on **Manage Options**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Within the hosting options area of your Web Hosting plan, click on **Manage Options**.
```

4. Deactivate the **Dedicated IP** toggle to initiate the process of removing the dedicated IP address of your Web Hosting plan.
5. Complete the process by clicking **Update Web Hosting Plan**.
    This action will update the configuration of your Web Hosting plan by replacing the dedicated IP address with the shared IP address of the server.

<Message type="important">

>   When deactivating the dedicated IP address for your Web Hosting, automated checks will be conducted to ensure that the IP is not blacklisted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When deactivating the dedicated IP address for your Web Hosting plan, automated checks will be conducted to ensure that the IP is not blacklisted.
```

  If your IP address is found to be blacklisted, the option cannot be deactivated, and you should reach out to our [technical support](https://console.scaleway.com/support/tickets) for assistance.
</Message>

> <Navigation title="See Also">

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<Navigation title="See also">
```
